1. Who developed the C language?
Dennis Ritchie developed C at Bell Labs in 1972.


2. What type of language is C?
C is a procedural, general-purpose, compiled, and structured programming language.


3. Write a simple C program to print “Hello World”.



#include <stdio.h>
int main() {
    printf("Hello World");
    return 0;
}

Output:

Hello World

4. What is the extension of a C program file?
The extension of a C program file is .c (for example, program.c).


5. Define compiler.
A compiler converts source code into machine code.


6. What are tokens in C?
Tokens are the smallest individual elements of a program, like keywords, constants, operators, and symbols.


7. Name any five keywords.
int, float, char, if, and return.


8. What are identifiers?
Identifiers are names given to variables, functions, and arrays. Example: marks, sum, main.


9. What is a variable?
A variable is a named memory location used to store data. Example: int a = 10;.


10. Write five features of C.
Simple, Portable, Structured, Efficient, and Extensible.


11. What is the use of #include <stdio.h>?
It includes standard input/output functions like printf() and scanf().


12. Explain the main() function.
The main() function is the entry point of every C program where execution starts.


13. Mention any two advantages of C.
Fast execution speed and portability across platforms.


14. Write one limitation of C.
It doesn’t support Object-Oriented Programming.


15. Predict the output of the following:



printf("C Language");

Output:

C Language

16. What is a constant?
A constant is a fixed value that does not change during program execution. Example: const int a = 10;.


17. Difference between compiler and interpreter.
A compiler translates the entire program at once and is faster, while an interpreter translates line by line and is slower. Example: C uses a compiler, while Python uses an interpreter.


18. Write the general structure of a C program.



#include <stdio.h>
int main() {
    // Code
    return 0;
}

19. What is the use of return 0;?
It indicates successful termination of the program.
